# realestate-management
 
Currently,  a  number  of  property  portals  enjoy  popularity  in  Bangladesh.  They  act  like  free bulletin boards for property seekers. People browse and search for open available properties on  those  sites.  They  also  can  view  user’s  profile  and  properties  pictures.  Seller  pay  those portals for posting their property for display to attract buyers. Those sites also allow buyer to seek  seller’s  profiles  as  per  their  requirement  in  return  for  a  payment  or  subscription.  So, essentially, the  seller pay for the service while the  buyer get  a free portal.  bikroy.com, falls into this category. These are typical classical buy sell portals. Some other portals allow property seller/  buyer post advertisement of their service  free.  In addition, the buyer get a free listing of the service providers. Such as, bikroy.com, clickbd.com, ekhanei.com  and  so  on  belong  to  this  category.  This value  chain  looks  simple: both  service seekers and providers get a portal of cross connection. These portals earn revenue/ value by display of sponsored advertisements under their listing of from banner advertisements on the portal itself. However, such portals seldom receive individual  seller posting their  properties for sell. This is a contrast between the classical portals and this type of portals.  Over all, the view point is a complete reversal of the first category. Here, to state in terms of portals, seller post their available properties. The buyer can browse and choose which property he should buy. However, their appearance look more like a common market place for any commodity or service than like a classical property / sell related portal. This is the second category.There  is  a  third  category  of  property  portals  known  as  free  lancing  site.  For  example www.bikroy.com/property.  Seller  post  their  properties,  availability,  and  rates.  Buyers  view, search,  browse,  and  filter  properties  for  free  and  anonymously.  Therefore,  the  service direction is completely opposite to that of the first category. In addition, free-lancing portals allow  candidates  post  and  create  their  profiles  and  publish  free.  Therefore,  the  primary 
customers to such sites are the buyers. Now,  the  forth  category.  Social  networking  solutions.  Some  of  the  popular  SNS  LinkedIn, Facebook and google plus offer display of individual’s market place. However, they don’t allow in  their  free  version  to  enlist/filter  property.  Regardless  of  their  extensive  database  of 
properties, their utility from an HR manager’s usage point of view does not add much value.
